# Exercise 1- Import Data from Azure SQL Database

## Lab Steps
VanArsdel's US office stores the sales data on an Access database. You will need to perform analysis on that data, but before you can do so, you need to import the data to Power BI Desktop and perform some transformations.

**IMPORTANT!** Before you start, if your locale settings is not English (United States), you might want to change this, since the data you will import is based on this locale. This is covered in "Changing Locale".

1. Shutdown all applications as power BI is a little resource intensive.

2. Click Start.

3. Type Power BI Desktop. Wait for power BI to open.

4. Click Get data.

5. Select Azure ==> Azure SQL database then click Connect.

6. Type following values
    - Server *techadvisory.database.windows.net*
    - Database *VanArsdel*
    - Data Connectivity mode *Import*

7. Click ok.

8. Select bi_date,  bi_manufacturer, bi_product and click Edit.

9. In Queries, select bi_Date.

10. Select the Date column.

11. Click the Transform ribbon.

12. In the Any Column group, select Data Type and select Date.

13. Click the drop-down button at the top of the Date column.

14. Click Date Filters and click After.

15. In the first Enter or select a value field, type 12/31/1999 if you are using DD/MM/YYYY dates and 31/12/1999 if you are using DD/MM/YYYY dates and click OK.

16. Rename the queries as follows:

    - In Queries, right click bi_date, click Rename, replace the text with Date, and press Enter.
    - In Queries, right click bi_manufacturer, click Rename, replace the text with Manufacturers, and press Enter.
    - In Queries, right click bi_product, click Rename, replace the text with Products, and press Enter.

17. Click the Home ribbon.

18. Click Close and Apply. Wait for a couple of minutes for data import to complete. 

19. Click Data and explore the imported data in the Data View.

## Questions for you to test your import

- How many rows were imported from the Date query?
- How many rows were imported from the Manufacturer query?
- How many rows were imported from the Products query?

Let's go to the next one [Exercise 2](https://github.com/BDO-Australia/MunchAndCrunch/blob/master/Session2/3.%20Exercise-2.md)