# Exercise 1- Import Data from Access Database

## Lab Steps
VanArsdel's US office stores the sales data on an Access database. You will need to perform analysis on that data, but before you can do so, you need to import the data to Power BI Desktop and perform some transformations.

**IMPORTANT!** Before you start, if your locale settings is not English (United States), you might want to change this, since the data you will import is based on this locale. This is covered in "Changing Locale".

1. Access the VanArsdel's SQL database. 

2. Click Start.

3. Type Power BI Desktop.

4. Click Get data.

5. Click Access database, and click Connect.

6. Navigate to C:\DAT207x, click PowerBI.accdb, and click Open.

7. Select bi_date, bi_geo, bi_manufacturer, bi_product, and bi_salesFact and click Edit.

8. In Queries, select bi_salesFact.

9. Select the Date column.

10. Click the Transform ribbon.

11. In the Any Column group, select Data Type and select Date.

12. Click the drop-down button at the top of the Date column.

13. Click Date Filters and click After.

14. In the first Enter or select a value field, type 12/31/1999 if you are using DD/MM/YYYY dates and 31/12/1999 if you are using DD/MM/YYYY dates and click OK.

15. In Queries, select bi_Date.

16. Select the Date column.

17. Click the Transform ribbon.

18. In the Any Column group, select Data Type and select Date.

19. Click the drop-down button at the top of the Date column.

20. Click Date Filters and click After.

21. In the first Enter or select a value field, type 12/31/1999 if you are using DD/MM/YYYY dates and 31/12/1999 if you are using DD/MM/YYYY dates and click OK.

22. Rename the queries as follows:

    - In Queries, right click bi_date, click Rename, replace the text with Date, and press Enter.
    - In Queries, right click bi_geo, click Rename, replace the text with Locations, and press Enter.
    - In Queries, right click bi_manufacturer, click Rename, replace the text with Manufacturers, and press Enter.
    - In Queries, right click bi_product, click Rename, replace the text with Products, and press Enter.
    - In Queries, right click bi_salesFact, click Rename, replace the text with Sales, and press Enter.

23. Click the Home ribbon.
24. Click Close and Apply.
25. Click Data and explore the imported data in the Data View.

## Questions for you to test

- How many rows were imported from the Date query?
- How many rows were imported from the Locations query?
- How many rows were imported from the Manufacturer query?
- How many rows were imported from the Products query?
- How many rows were imported from the Sales table?

## Answers

Table | Rows 
--- | --- 
Date | 5844
Locations | 99618
Manufacturer | 14
Products | 2412
Sales | 9985368