# Exercise 2- Import Data from a Folder Containing CSV Files

Continue with your Power BI file from the previous exercise. You want to create a Query for the International sales and append the Query to the Query from US Sales.


1. If not already done, download the zip files containing VanArsdel's Sales, Geo and international sales data as per the instructions provided in [introduction](https://github.com/BDO-Australia/MunchAndCrunch/blob/master/Session2/1.%20Lab%20Introduction.md). Extract the files to “C:\DAT207x” on your computers. You can use other folders, but it is recommended to use the absolute path given above in order to successfully perform future labs by reusing your today's work. You should see 4 CSV files in the "C:\DAT207x\International" folder and 2 CSV files in "C:\DAT207x\VanArsdel" folder.

2. On the Home ribbon, click Get Data, click File, click Text/CSV and click Connect.

3. Select the path for bi_geo.csv file in "C:\DAT207x\VanArsdel" folder. 

4. Click Load.

5. Again, on the Home ribbon, click Get Data, click File, click Text/CSV and click Connect.

6. Select the path for bi_salesFact.csv file in "C:\DAT207x\VanArsdel" folder.

8. In Queries, select bi_salesFact.

9. Click Edit.

10. Select column1, right click and choose rename.

11. Type ProductID as the new column name.

   - Similarly, rename other columns as below:

   Column | Rename to
    --- | --- 
    Column 2 | Date
    Column 3 | Zip
    Column 4 | Units
    Column 5 | Revenue

  - Once all columns are renamed, select the Date column.

  - Click the Transform ribbon.

12.  In the Any Column group, select Data Type and select Date. Click the drop-down button at the top of the Date column.

13. Click Date Filters and click After.

14. In the first Enter or select a value field, type 12/31/1999 if you are using DD/MM/YYYY dates and 31/12/1999 if you are using DD/MM/YYYY dates and click OK.

15. Rename the queries as follows:


    - In Queries, right click bi_geo, click Rename, replace the text with Locations, and press Enter.
    - In Queries, right click bi_salesFact, click Rename, replace the text with Sales, and press Enter.

16. Click Home and then close & Apply. It will take a couple of mins to load the sales data. 

17. Now for the international sales data, on the Home ribbon, click Get Data, click Folder, and click Connect.

18. In Folder path, type C:\DAT207x\International, and click OK.

19. Click Edit.

20. In QUERY SETTINGS change the name to International Sales.

21. On the Content header, click Combine Files.

22. Click OK.

23. Click File, click Options and settings, and click Options.

24. Click Regional Settings and, in Locale for import, select English (United States).

25. Click OK.

26. Select the Date column.

27. Click the Transform ribbon.

28. In the Any Column group, select Data Type and select Date.

29. Click Replace current.

30. Click the drop-down button at the top of the Date column.

31. Click Date Filters and click After.

32. In the first Enter or select a value field, type 12/31/1999 if you are using DD/MM/YYYY dates and 31/12/1999 if you are using DD/MM/YYYY dates and click OK.

33. In Queries, select Sales.

34. On the Home ribbon, click Append Queries.

35. Select International Sales and click OK.

36. On the Add Column ribbon, click Custom Column.

37. In New column name type Country Name.

38. To replace null values with USA, in Custom column formula, type the following formula and click OK:

    =if [Country] = null then "USA" else [Country]

    1. Right-click the header of the Country column and click Remove.
    2. Click the Home ribbon.
    3. Click Close & Apply.
    4. Click Data and explore the imported data in the Data View.


## Questions for you to test
- How many rows were imported from the Locations query?
- How many rows were imported from the Sales table?
- How many rows were imported from the International Sales query?
- How many rows are now in the Sales query?

One more to go [Excercise 3](https://github.com/BDO-Australia/MunchAndCrunch/blob/master/Session2/4.%20Excercise-3.md)