# Exercise 3- Import a Less Structured Data from an Excel File

Continue with your Power BI file from the previous exercise. You want to import an Excel report containing population data for the countries that VanArsdel operates.

1. If not already done, download the zip file containing the Country Population data as per the instructions provided in [introduction](https://github.com/BDO-Australia/MunchAndCrunch/blob/master/Session2/1.%20Lab%20Introduction.md). (This data is a subset of the “World Data Bank's Population, total” dataset). Extract the files to “C:\DAT207x” on your computers. You can use other folders, but it is recommended to use the absolute path given above in order to successfully perform future labs by reusing your today's work. 

2. Import the data from the file folder by clicking Get Data, clicking Excel and clicking Connect.

3. Select C:\DAT207x\Country Population by Year.xlsx and click Open.

4. Select Sheet1 and click Edit.

5. In QUERY SETTINGS change Name to Country Population.

6. On the ribbon, click Remove Rows, click Remove Top Rows, in Number of rows, type 3, and click OK.

7. On the ribbon, click Use First Row as Headers.

8. Select the 1999 column, hold Shift and select the 2014 column.

9. On the Transform ribbon, click Unpivot Columns.

10. Right-click the Attribute column header and click Rename.

11. Type Year and press Enter.

12. Right-click the Value column header and click Rename.

13. Type Population and press Enter.

14. Click the drop-down button on the Year header, unselect 1999, and click OK.

15. Click the Year header, on the Transform ribbon click Data Type, and click Whole Number.

16. Click the Population header, on the Transform ribbon click Data Type, and click Whole Number.

17. Click the Home ribbon.

18. Click Close & Apply.

19. If you receive an error, close the error, click the Model view, right-click each relationship connecting Country Population, and click Delete. Now click Apply changes.

20. Load the data into Power BI Desktop.

21. Explore the imported data in the Data View.

## Questions for you to test

- How many rows were imported from the Country Population query?
- How many distinct values of the Year column were imported from the Country Population query?


you can check your solutions [here](https://github.com/BDO-Australia/MunchAndCrunch/blob/master/Session2/Solutions.md)